Incident Report For Kaiden’s JWT PIZZA

STATUS: This incident has been resolved.

Summary: At 11:30 AM MST, Chaos was intentionally injected into Kaiden’s JWT Pizza application. This was done to test Kaiden’s mastery of observability for Deliverable 11. This injected Chaos caused latency throughout the application to increase significantly. Most importantly, it prevented customers from being able to purchase JWT pizzas. This affected all customers. The issue was resolved by viewing the logged error messages from the JWT Pizza Factory, noticing that they contained a URL, and navigating to that URL, which resolved the issue.

Detection: The application metrics were viewed periodically from 8 AM onwards, and at 11:30 a sharp increase in latency was recorded. This led to investigation from the development team, who, upon consulting with the TA’s, redeployed the application with increased Logging, which then recorded the error messaged from JWT Pizza Factory which was identified as the issue by the development team.

Impact: This incident increased latency throughout the site and prevented all customers from purchasing JWT Pizzas.

TimeLine: 12:05 PM: High Latency in the Metrics was observed
1:30 PM: The development team deploys ineffectual input sanitizing code to “fix” the issue.
1:40 PM: The head of the development team accidently re-requests chaos.
4:50 PM: The head of the development team consults with the TAs, and learns that better logging is required to diagnose the issue.
6:50 PM: The application is redeployed with better Logging.
7: 00 PM: The necessary error logs from JWT Pizza Factory are identified. The correct URL is opened, and the issue is resolved.

RCA: The JWT Pizza Factory was throwing an error instead of making a JWT.
